> [!bug] Issue
> This used to be in the History section of the [[Risky Witches]] page. I intend to rewrite this eventually, but this'll do for now.

In late 1990, [[Destrea]] got a new commander in chief, and with him came a new policy. Spirits showing "signs of rebellion" were to be executed without trial. This was not what Freya expected "the big event" to be, so there was a change of plans. She rallied the Witchblades around the idea of rebellion, began ordering detachments of her newfound army to specific strategic locations around the country, and told them all to expect further orders at the end of the year. Upon hearing her plan, Garm commented about how risky it is to spread the forces so thin, which inadvertently led to the new name of the group. But the move was calculated. Public opinion of the new regime was extremely low, so much that rebellion was on the minds of many already, making it significantly easier to move undetected.

At the turn of the new year in 1991, just as the holiday fireworks started, a surprise coup was staged against Destrea with frightening efficiency, hijacking the news coverage of the new year celebration and broadcasting the attacks nationwide. Government officials with any connection to the commander in chief were killed all across the country, the Destrean military was severely weakened, and a large number of weapons and aircraft were stolen.

After only 39 minutes, all high ranking individuals of the new regime were dead except for the commander in chief himself. Freya personally led the operation to storm his villa with a hostage news crew forced to follow and broadcast the whole operation. By the time they reached his room, this broadcast was on every national news network. When they broke down his door, Freya was shot eight times in the chest and twice in the head. The camera only had a glimpse of her in frame, but it was enough to see she was still standing. She then shot the commander in chief once in the throat, and after lingering on his dying body for a couple of seconds, the camera was turned towards Freya's remaining allies, now revealed to all be spirits. One of the men then stepped forward and gave a rallying speech, followed by a warning to residents of the state of Espada to evacuate and make room for the Risky Witches. After that, the broadcast was cut and the crew was released unharmed.

After that event, Destrea fell into civil war between the revolutionaries and conservatives. The revolutionaries grew exponentially in fervor as every one killed was seen as a martyr, especially once they learned that the coup caused no civilian casualties.

At the same time, the Risky Witches all converged on the state of Espada at full strength, and after two days of fighting, seized control of the entire state and annexed a fortified city. After flushing everybody out of the city and claiming it fully as Risky Witches property, it was deemed Presidio de la Bruja and celebrations erupted for days on end. As the civil war raged outside, the revolutionaries continued to dwindle, and the international community was still trying to make sense of the events.

The Risky Witches elected not to take control of Destrea as they preferred to separate, and after two weeks of reeling, the conservative faction installed a new commander in chief, who declared the Risky Witches to be terrorists and swore that they would be wiped out. The Risky Witches fired back, playfully challenging the Destrean regime to tell the world how many civilians they've killed, then revealed documentation and video evidence showing that the Risky Witches have killed none. After that, the international community largely decided to turn a blind eye to the coup and the Risky Witches, while the global opinion of Destrea plummeted. The civil war still rages to this day.

-----
> [!cite] Author info
> **Kit**\
> [Web zone](https://kitabe.link) [Twitter](https://twitter.com/Kerosyn_)