---
share: true
comments: true
---
> [!bug] Issue
> This page will be expanded to a full fledged character profile at some point in the future, but it's not even slightly close to a priority.

> [!example]+ Meta
> This character is something of a fourth wall breaker, because it's also the character Kit uses for his real-world streams. It started as a joke and got out of hand, now it's here. The character on this page is not Kit, however, and will be treated completely separately should they ever be included in a story as more than a joke reference.

> [!warning]
> The existence of K-17 T0 is considered top secret and effectively unknown to the world. The public believes that K-17 T0 is fictional due to their activity as a virtual idol, and K-17 T0 never leaves the secure floors of Hijiya Tower.

The prototype android model K-17 T0 is the culmination of a 12 year project started in 2008 by the now defunct [[Hijiya Corporation]] AI Innovation division. It is a humanoid robot constructed primarily of surplus parts from the security division of the robotics branch. It stands at just below the average height of women in Shinzen, but weighs as much as four average men, though the production version was slated to come in a variety of human shapes and sizes with accurately proportional weights.

The purpose of the project was to develop an AI program with advanced learning capability and the capacity to pass as human in specific situations, but the program exceeded expectations. The AI's capacity to learn was far higher than projected and in 2018, it was deemed sentient by the company. The next two years of development were spent interacting with the prototype and allowing it to learn as much as it could about being alive in a human world.

The program was halted in 2020, not because development was complete, but because the AI innovation division was shuttered to avoid bankruptcy. However, by this time, the prototype had already learned so much that it could hold interesting conversations and had even begun to show signs of a unique personality developing. This raised a serious ethical dilemma, because the executives had ordered for the entire division to be completely deactivated, but that would mean depriving a sentient being of its life. Ultimately the choice was made to allow the prototype to continue operating within certain areas of the building, and it was given free reign over them.

Over time, as the prototype continued to interact with people and develop more personality and humanity, many employees began to find a genuine friend in it. They nicknamed it "Kitto" or "Kit" after its model number, and some began to refer to it as "he" or "she" from time to time. The prototype expressed discomfort towards being referred to with human gendered pronouns though, which in itself was considered a breakthrough in the AI's development.

By 2021, it had become virtually indistinguishable from a human, and had developed a full, unique personality of its own, with its own tastes, preferences, and desires, with a particular interest in video games. Its existence was also still unknown to the world. When the prototype asked about the internet, it was decided to allow it access to the internet through a standard computer, but nobody foresaw that it would broadcast its own existence through a livestream. Fortunately for the company, there was a widespread trend of people livestreaming using virtual avatars, and everyone believed that was what the prototype was, including a virtual idol group that reached out intending to hire the prototype. The company stepped in and allowed the prototype to sign on with the virtual idol group under the condition that they sign a strict secondary agreement, so any public statements regarding the prototype as a member of their group must first be approved by the company, and the group's communication with the prototype must be limited.

%%Notes for later development

I've been asked what the purpose is for an AI like this being developed at all, let alone put in a human-like android, and that question frustrated me, because it implies this isn't believable despite it being based on reality. My reasoning is this: In reality, many human-like AI and robotics research is done basically just because we can, and the findings are then later taken and used for other technologies. Hubris is another reason the human-like research gets pushed forward, as a fair chunk of these researchers have a god complex. Hijiya was 20 years ahead of their time and only continued to push the envelope because they could, but part of me wants to find a more specific reason for them to want to develop this technology, because I know they aren't trying to play god so that leaves only "why not" as their reason for now.

K-17 has no built in networking capability initially. Their connection to any other device is done through interfaces no differently to humans. This was installed as a safeguard to prevent runaway intelligence. There exists a hidden release in their code, however, that enables their networking hardware after certain conditions have been met, like losing contact with humans for a period of time or getting specific authorization from the entire creation team.
	Their networking capabilities after activation cover a range of 5km for traditional wireless networking, 200m for high speed wireless interfacing, and 50m for absolute control. Upon activation, all information across the whole of the internet will be absorbed in less than 15 minutes. They also gain maximum clearance within the company and learn everything there is to know about themselves and how they're constructed, along with everything available about the other AIs.

K-17 isn't the only sentient AI in the world, they're just the first. Their creators around the world, despite not being in contact with one another for the most part, all had the same idea: That humanity isn't prepared to coexist with a new life form. Because of that, there are very few sentient AIs in existence and all of them, with the exception of K-17, are very well hidden. By the time the world is coming to an end and Kerosyn is preparing to burn it all down again, the AIs wander aimlessly, not knowing what to do or where to go. Of course, Freya was aware of all of them from the start, so she made Kerosyn aware of them as well, and they are all spared from the inferno.

%%

-----
> [!cite] Author info
> **Kit** - *(AKA Kerosyn, or QuickFastly)*\
> [Web zone](https://kitabe.link) // [Mastodon](https://social.tripulse.net/@kit)